Wisconsin Breast Cancer Data Analysis
Overview
This project analyzes the Wisconsin Breast Cancer Dataset using multiple machine learning techniques in R. The goal is to build predictive models for cancer diagnosis, comparing their performance using validation techniques such as cross-validation, best subset selection, Lasso regression, random forests, and support vector classification.

Authors
Nico Gonnella
Christian Costanza
Date
May 5, 2024

Objectives
Perform exploratory data analysis (EDA) to understand relationships between features.
Implement multiple linear regression (MLR) for quantitative feature analysis.
Develop classification models to predict cancer diagnosis.
Use validation techniques (cross-validation, validation set approach) to assess model performance.
Apply Lasso regression for feature selection.
Train Random Forest and Support Vector Classification (SVC) models to improve classification accuracy.
Dataset
Source: Wisconsin Breast Cancer Dataset
Preprocessing:
Removed a column containing only NA values.
Selected relevant features based on domain knowledge.
Requirements
Install the required libraries in R:

r
Copy
Edit
install.packages(c("tidyverse", "leaps", "glmnet", "randomForest", "e1071", "corrplot"))
Methodology
1️⃣ Data Preprocessing & Exploratory Analysis
Filtered dataset to select key features.
Used pairs() to visualize relationships between variables.
Generated a correlation matrix with corrplot().
2️⃣ Multiple Linear Regression (MLR)
Built an MLR model to predict compactness_mean using relevant features.
Evaluated model performance with residual plots and confidence intervals.
3️⃣ Classification Models
Best Subset Selection: Selected optimal features for diagnosis prediction.
Lasso Regression: Applied L1 regularization to improve feature selection.
Random Forest: Built an ensemble model and assessed feature importance.
Support Vector Classification: Tuned hyperparameters (cost) and evaluated accuracy.
Results & Evaluation
Model	Error Metric	Performance
Best Subset Selection	MSE = 1.0614	Feature selection using validation set
Lasso Regression	MSE = 0.0743	Regularization improved performance
Random Forest	MSE = 1.4319	Lower accuracy than Lasso
SVC (Best Model)	Accuracy = 97.4%	Best performing model
Usage
Run the analysis using:

r
Copy
Edit
source("analysis_script.R")
Future Improvements
Tune hyperparameters further for Random Forest and SVM.
Experiment with other feature selection techniques.
Test additional classification models (e.g., Gradient Boosting).
